00:00:00
How do you make sure that AI agents aren't writing slop in your codebase? How do you make sure that when you're running 5, 15, 30 plus agents at a time that they're not just creating technical debt? That they're not just writing slop to your codebase. Those are the questions that I'm going to be answering today in this video. If you don't think this is possible, I would recommend you read this article from Stripe talking about how they use agents in production in one of the most consequential coding

00:00:26
environments in the world right now. So, these are the techniques that I use. These are the techniques that other top performing agentic engineers are using and today I'm going to cover them in depth. If you don't already know me, my name is Jim West. I've been using LLM to write production quality code for as long as it's been possible. Everything that I build, I build in public. So, if you're interested in seeing what I'm working on, seeing what anti-slop patterns look like, as well as learning

00:00:50
more about Agentic Engineering, I would highly recommend you go check out my GitHub where I have all the resources that you would need. So, let's talk about the tools and techniques that go into anti-slop. The very first mindset shift that needs to happen is you have to stop assuming that LLM code equals SLO. If you still think that tools like Claude Code just produce slop, that their code will always be bad, you have to clear that mindset and realize that if LLMs are writing slop in your codebase, that is an engineering problem

00:01:18
and not an LLM problem. The models are capable enough to write highquality code. And I'm going to show you why and how. So before I dig much deeper into this, let's talk about the number one rule here. Um at least my personal number one rule when it comes to agentic engineering is never fix bad output. If you get bad output from an agent, you should diagnose that, reset the run, fix the issue that caused an agent to write bad code, and then rerun from scratch. So don't worry about fixing technical

00:01:46
debt produced by an agent. If the agent had bad results, scrap it and try again. Let's dig into the tools used by top agentic engineers to ensure that the LLMs writing their code aren't producing slop. First and foremost, we have hooks. Hooks are incredibly important. They are incredibly powerful. Hooks allow you to create custom harnesses around your agent as well as produce logging, stop destructive changes before they happen. They are the first layer of defense when it comes to agentic engineering. Some

00:02:16
examples of hooks that I use are pre-commit hooks which aren't even running in cloud code or the agent harness that I'm using when an agent goes to commit their work. You know, tests are run, linting is checked, so on and so forth. That moves into quality gates. When it comes to quality gates, this is, I think, a shift that engineers have to make in how they approach things like linting and type-checking because with LLMs, we can enforce the strictest possible rules when it comes to linting

00:02:42
or type-checking as well as with test passing. So personally in my code bases I always run the strictest possible linting as well as the strictest possible type checking for LLMs. So when they are making code they can ensure that that code is up to project standards. Additionally I always make sure that every test in my codebase is passing before it moves on to the next agent or you know gets pushed to remote or anything like that. Talking a bit more about testing, I personally use an anti-mocking testing philosophy. Sort of

00:03:16
the guiding principle is never mock, which you can use for real. Um, and this is super important because if you have used LMS to write code, especially test, you know that they love to mock things. And often times the tests that they write aren't even testing the actual code. So I always make sure that this philosophy of anti-mocking is baked into every single agent that I have running in my codebase. High coverage is obviously something that's super important. You want to make sure that

00:03:42
the code in your codebase is actually tested. So I use a super high coverage rate and then again 100% pass rate. Every single test should pass in my codebase before any more work can be done. If I run into any failures or if an agent writes a failing test, I fix that immediately either within that agent or um I will scrap the entire agent run and try again from beginning. The next tool that I use is standardization. So this is making sure that issues are all tracked in one location. Agent learnings are all

00:04:12
getting stored in the same location so you don't end up with 600 markdown files across your entire project. You should standardize where agents are doing their work. What this looks like is work trees isolation. Where are agents actually doing their work and how is that being standardized and checked? And then who is reviewing the agent work? Do you have other agents reviewing agent work? Is everything being reviewed manually by humans via PR? What does that look like and how is that standardized in your

00:04:39
codebase? Per agent isolation is crucial when it comes to running swarms and multi-agent workflows. This essentially stops any agents from overwriting each other or stepping on each other's toes. For me personally, what this looks like is I'm always running agents within work trees. Now, a guiding principle here is that an isolated agent is a safe agent. So making sure that an agent working on your codebase isn't going to mess up other agents working on your codebase. This only becomes more and more

00:05:09
important when you have swarms of agents or several different agents working in a multi- aent chain on your codebase. The final tool here is hard blocks. So what should agents never be allowed to do? What tools do you block? For example, I always block get push in my projects because I don't want agents pushing things to remote that I haven't checked and manually verified. Additionally, what tools are you blocking? So, a scout agent, for example, may not be allowed to write any files. They should only be

00:05:38
allowed to read files and report back. How do you force correct behavior with agents? So, how do you make sure that an agent that has a specific task is only doing that task and if it gets distracted or runs off on a tangent, how do you make sure that uh that's caught early and reset that agent? Hard blocks ties very closely with hooks. These are very closely related because hooks allow you to establish hard blocks and sort of have those as code. I want to be clear here with the tools that this is not a

00:06:05
comprehensive list. Doesn't cover every tool that is in your tool belt. These are just the main ones that I personally am using and other top performing agentic engineers are using. Now let's talk about some additional techniques that you can use on top of the tools that you already have access to to ensure this anti-slot philosophy. First and foremost, we have traceability. So what agent made what changes, when were those changes made, where were the changes made. This is where things like

00:06:32
hooks become super important because you can trace every single action that every single agent has made. Task decomposition is another tool that I use heavily in all of my codebases. The way to think about this is that a focused agent is a correct agent. So I personally try to oneshot everything. I should only give the agent one prompt and it should be able to work with that one prompt all the way to completion with whatever the task I g gave it was. Indie Dev Dan came up with this really great slogan. One agent, one task, one

00:07:02
prompt. Like I said, a focused agent is a correct agent. So making sure that one agent is only ever operating on one task and ideally only ever given one prompt. That is how you can place more and more trust into your agents. When that success rate with one agent, one task, one prompt goes way up, you realize, okay, I can place trust into these agents because I have seen that they are focused and successful. One of my personal favorite techniques with agentic engineering is this pit of success idea. This is a long-standing

00:07:32
software engineering idea, but for agents it becomes even more important and there are some caveats on top of the traditional pit of success. You have to think that when you are writing code with LLMs, the input tokens you're passing in are essentially finetuning that LLM. If you are passing in garbage tokens, you're going to get garbage out. You can think of this like a recursive loop. So, as the agents write higher quality code, new agents working on that code are going to output higher quality

00:07:59
code. Next up, we have specs. So, specs should leave no ambiguity to the agent. You should not let agents infer anything about what you are trying to do. It's very important that your specs are perfectly aligned with your vision. And this is a process that takes time to learn. It takes writing several specs to make sure that okay, this vision that I have in my head is perfectly outlined here in this spec file. The more detailed the spec file is, the better the result is going to be for an agent

00:08:29
working on that spec file. So, personally, I like to have my specs as detailed as possible. You know, exact line numbers, exact file names, code snippets if it's relevant, everything like that really goes into how productive an agent is going to be. Next up, we have multi-agent workflows or swarms. And this looks like a series of agents that are decomposing tasks, that are reviewing each other's code, that are writing detailed specs and building out those specs. A very important thing when it comes to multi-agent workflows

00:09:01
and swarms is that every step of the way, every agent should pass those high quality check before passing their work off to the next agent. If a build agent finishes work, before that work is reviewed, we should ensure that the tests are passing, that linting is passing, that typeing is passing, so that when the agent goes to review it, we already know that all of those things are good to go. And then that just moves further up the chain. So by the time code hits the coordinator agent, this top level orchestration agent, you can

00:09:29
ensure that okay, every step of the way we had quality checks and there is no slop in that chain. Agent scope is a massive factor and this relates to specs and you know task decomposition etc. This is just another way to think about one agent, one task, one prompt. What files should your agent be working on? What is outside of the scope of this agent? As well as how do we reduce ambiguity for agents? So how do we make sure that an agent knows this is the only thing I should be working on? If I run into problems over in this section

00:10:00
of the codebase, I shouldn't worry about that. That should be left for another agent. This is a very tricky thing to do, but if you tie in all those tools and techniques we've talked about so far, this is going to make the agent scope much much better. Finally, with techniques, we have standardization once again. So, agents should never surprise you. The output name and agent should not surprise you. Prompt structure, tool usage, these things should all be standardized in your codebase should be

00:10:26
standardized between agents. what exactly the agents have access to and how are they using it and how is that standardized across different agents. When it comes to things like swarms, chain of command is super important. So standardizing when the user needs to come back into the loop, when do I need to be notified as the developer um when an agent runs into problems, that's super important. And having those decision points is vital to making sure that you are not producing slop. This is by no means a comprehensive list of the

00:10:56
tools and techniques available to agentic engineers. I highly recommend with all the clients that I work with that this is worked out amongst your team. This should not be something that you are just adopting or letting cloud code come up for you. You need to think about what tools do I have in my codebase? What techniques do I want my team to follow and how are those distilled into our agent workflows. If you are interested in hearing more from me and having conversations with me, I would recommend checking out Promptra.

00:11:25
This is going to be the best line of communication with me individually as well as checking out the entire community that we have here. It's a really, really amazing community. It's gotten a ton of growth over the past month or so. So, I'm super excited about Promptra. Additionally, if you're interested in working with me, I will link my consulting website down below. You can go check that out and see if there's any way that I can help you personally. Thank you for watching this

00:11:48
video. I post weekly on Fridays as well as throughout the week. Be sure to subscribe, like, and leave a comment if you have any questions about this or if you have any other tool or techniques that you are using in your code bases because I'm always looking to learn more about agentic engineering. So, thank you so much for watching and I will see you in the next
